{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red10\green0\blue109;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://reprap.org/wiki/G3D_driver"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs24 \cf0 http://reprap.org/wiki/G3D_driver}}
\f0\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl384\sa90

\b\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Adjusting the Pololus/StepSticks\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl384\sa130

\b0\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 With the motor currents required to move a RepRap printer, Pololus/StepSticks usually require a heatsink on the chip, sometimes additionally a fan directed to them. Gladly, they have a pretty reliable thermal protection built in, so overloading them doesn't cause permanent harm.\
The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://reprap.org/wiki/Sanguinololu#Pololu_drivers_current_limit_configuration"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Sanguinololu wiki page}} has a nice writeup on how to adjust stepper drivers by measuring voltages. Adjusting by reference voltage (Vref) misses an important point, though: adjusting current means adjusting torque and the torque requirement differs from printer to printer.\
Here's another way:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl384\sa26
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Work on only one axis at a time.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Make sure the axis can be moved by hand easily with motors powered off. No kind of current helps if your axis blocks mechanically.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Turn the trimpot full counter-clockwise.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Turn the trimpot clockwise 1/8 turn.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Send commands to your firmware to make this motor move. Slow speeds (G1 F50) first, then faster.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 If the motor just beeps, but shows no movement, or if you get missing steps, turn the trimpot clockwise another 1/8 turn. Things should get better.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	7.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 When you've reached a position where everything moves without step losses, you can turn another 1/8 clockwise as safety margin.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	8.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 That's it, repeat for each of the other axes.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl384\sa90

\b\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Troubleshooting Stepper Motors\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl384\sa130

\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Note
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 : before disconnecting a motor or a stepper driver, 
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 always
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  power off at least the 12\'a0V power supply. On a Gen7 powered via the ATX20/24 connector and running Teacup firmware, this is done by pressing the reset button.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl384\sa26
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 If something doesn't work on one axis, but works fine on another, change motors or stepper drivers with a working axis and try again. This helps finding defective parts. All axes are electronically the same, so you can swap stuff to your heart's content.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 If a motor moves in one direction only, either the endstop part of your firmware's configuration doesn't match hardware or the DIR pin doesn't get a signal. The DIR pin is the rightmost in the lower row of the stepper driver header and can be measured with a voltage meter. It should change between 0\'a0V and 5\'a0V when changing direction.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 If a stepper moves the wrong direction, you can change the direction by swapping both pins of one motor coil in the connector. For example, ABCD becomes ABDC. Another way is to invert the direction in your firmware configuration, of course. Both methods work equally well.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 If your motor just hums or beeps, there are several possible reasons:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl390\sa26
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Mechanical overload. To avoid that for sure, remove the belt from the motor's pulley.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl1\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Commanded speed too high. Try with a lower feedrate, like F50 (or 0.5 mm/s in Pronterface).\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl1\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Your motor is miswired. Check {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://reprap.org/wiki/Gen7_Board_1.4.1#Stepper_Wiring"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 #Stepper Wiring}} again.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl384\sa26
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 If there is no sign of movement at all, not even humming or beeping, check wether the ENABLE pin goes low when attempting a movement. 0\'a0V = steppers enabled, 5\'a0V = steppers disabled. It's the leftmost pin in the lower row of the stepper driver header.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 If a motor starts to move, but has repeated dropouts or starts stuttering, the stepper driver chip apparently overheats and runs into it's thermal protection. Add a heatsink, attach a fan or reduce motor current, depending on your situation.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 If your stepper drivers and/or motors warm up while there is no movement ongoing: that's normal. Stepper motors suck the most energy while powered up, but at stillstand.\cb1 \
}